Add dianne tutorials (#734)
nipy/heudiconv: docs/reproin.rst

================
Reproin 
================

This tutorial is based on `Dianne Patterson's University of Arizona tutorials <https://neuroimaging-core-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/pages/heudiconv.html#lesson-3-reproin-py>`_

`Reproin <https://github.com/ReproNim/reproin>`_ is a setup for
automatic generation of sharable, version-controlled BIDS datasets from
MR scanners.

> If can control how your image sequences are named at the scanner you can
> use the *reproin* naming convention.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you can control how your image sequences are named at the scanner, you can use the *reproin* naming convention.
If you cannot control such naming, or already have collected data, you can provide your custom heuristic mapping into *reproin* and thus in effect use reproin heuristic.
That will be a topic for another tutorial but meanwhile you can checkout `reproin/issues/18 <https://github.com/ReproNim/reproin/issues/18#issuecomment-834598084>`_ for a brief HOWTO. 
```

Get Example Dataset
-------------------

> This example uses a phantom dataset: `reproin_dicom.zip <https://osf.io/4jwk5/>`_ generated by the University of Arizona on their Siemens Skyra 3T with Syngo MR VE11c software on 2018_02_08.

Reviewer: should point to our copy at https://datasets.datalad.org/?dir=/repronim/heudiconv-reproin-example ?

The ``REPROIN`` directory is a simple reproin-compliant DICOM (.dcm) dataset without sessions. 
(Derived dwi images (ADC, FA etc.) that the scanner produced have been removed.::

    [user@local ~/reproin_dicom/REPROIN]$ tree -I "*.dcm"

        REPROIN
        ├── data
        └── dicom
            └── 001
                └── Patterson_Coben\ -\ 1
                    ├── Localizers_4
                    ├── anatT1w_acqMPRAGE_6
                    ├── dwi_dirAP_9
                    ├── fmap_acq4mm_7
                    ├── fmap_acq4mm_8
                    ├── fmap_dirPA_15
                    └── func_taskrest_16

Convert and organize
--------------------

From the ``REPROIN`` directory::

    heudiconv -f reproin --bids  -o data --files dicom/001 --minmeta

* ``-f reproin`` specifies the converter file to use
* ``-o data/`` specifies the output directory *data*.  If the output directory does not exist, it will be created.
* ``--files dicom/001`` identifies the path to the DICOM files.

> *  ``--minmeta`` ensures that only the minimum necessary amount of data gets added to the JSON file when created.  On the off chance that there is a LOT of meta-information in the DICOM header, the JSON file will not get swamped by it. fmriprep and mriqc are very sensitive to this information overload and will crash, so minmeta provides a layer of protection against such corruption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*  ``--minmeta`` ensures that only the minimum necessary amount of data gets added to the JSON file when created.  On the off chance that there is a LOT of meta-information in the DICOM header, the JSON file will not get swamped by it. Rumors are that fMRIPrep and MRIQC might be sensitive to excess of metadata and might crash crash, so minmeta provides a layer of protection against such corruption.
```
hm... I would like to investigate that and ideally remove from here.
Insofar I do not see any reports in https://github.com/search?q=repo%3Anipreps%2Ffmriprep+heudiconv&type=issues .

Output Directory Structure
--------------------------

> Heudiconv's Reproin converter produces a hierarchy of BIDS directories::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Heudiconv's Reproin converter produces a hierarchy (see `ReproIn Walkthrough "Organization" <https://github.com/ReproNim/reproin/blob/master/docs/walkthrough-1.md#organization>`_) of directories based on "Study Description" field populated based on the exam card chosen for the session.
At the bottom of the hierarchy is the directory with the BIDS dataset::
```

    data
    └── Patterson
        └── Coben
            ├── sourcedata
            │   └── sub-001
            │       ├── anat
            │       ├── dwi
            │       ├── fmap
            │       └── func
            └── sub-001
                ├── anat
                ├── dwi
                ├── fmap
                └── func

> **TODO --- WHAT IS A REGION AND EXAM???**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The specific value for the hierarchy can be specified to HeuDiConv via `--locator PATH` option.
If not, ReproIn heuristic bases it on the value of the DICOM "Study Description"  field which is populated when user selects a specific *Exam* card located within some *Region* (see `ReproIn Walkthrough "Organization" <https://github.com/ReproNim/reproin/blob/master/docs/walkthrough-1.md#organization>`_).
```

* The dataset is nested under two levels in the output directory: *Region* (Patterson) and *Exam* (Coben). *Tree* is reserved for other purposes at the UA research scanner.
* Although the Program *Patient* is not visible in the output hierarchy, it is important.  If you have separate sessions, then each session should have its own Program name.

> * **sourcedata** contains tarred gzipped (tgz) sets of DICOM images corresponding to each NIFTI image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **sourcedata** contains tarred gzipped (`.tgz`) sets of DICOM images corresponding to NIfTI images.
```
I would not say "each" since some times (e.g. multi-echo) there could be multiple NIfTI images and a single .tgz

> * **sub-001** contains the BIDS dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **sub-001/** contains a single subject data within this BIDS dataset.
```

> * The hidden directory is generated: *REPROIN/data/Patterson/Coben/.heudiconv*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The hidden directory is generated: *REPROIN/data/Patterson/Coben/.heudiconv* to contain derived mapping data, which could potentially be inspected or adjusted/used for re-conversion.
```

At the Scanner
**************

> **TODO --- Is this generally useful or should be cut???**

Author: @yarikoptic Can you have a look at this section? Region/exam/program is confusing to me.

Reviewer: ok, will do.

Reviewer: it is kinda useful but I think better to just retain that pointer to https://github.com/ReproNim/reproin/blob/master/docs/walkthrough-1.md#new-program I did above and indeed cut out this section.

> Here is this phantom dataset displayed in the scanner dot cockpit.  The directory structure is defined at the top: *Patterson >> Coben >> Patient*

Reviewer: Says "Here" like there would be an image like those https://github.com/ReproNim/reproin/blob/master/docs/walkthrough-1.md#new-program  
anything missing?

> At the Scanner
> **************
> 
> **TODO --- Is this generally useful or should be cut???**
> 
> Here is this phantom dataset displayed in the scanner dot cockpit.  The directory structure is defined at the top: *Patterson >> Coben >> Patient*
> 
> * *Region* = *Patterson*
> * *Exam* = *Coben*
> * *Program* = *Patient*
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
per discussion above

Reproin Scanner File Names
****************************

> 

Author: @yarikoptic This section needs review from someone who is more familiar with bids/reproin/mri

> * For both BIDS and *reproin*, names are composed of an ordered series of key-value pairs.  Each key and its value are joined with a dash ``-`` (e.g., ``acq-MPRAGE``, ``dir-AP``).  These key-value pairs are joined to other key-value pairs with underscores ``_``. The exception is the modality label, which is discussed more below.

Reviewer: make sentence per line please (just verify that renders properly)
```suggestion
* For both BIDS and *reproin*, names are composed of an ordered series of key-value pairs, called [*entities*](https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-specification/blob/master/src/schema/objects/entities.yaml).
   Each key and its value are joined with a dash ``-`` (e.g., ``acq-MPRAGE``, ``dir-AP``).
   These key-value pairs are joined to other key-value pairs with underscores ``_``.
   The exception is the modality label, which is discussed more below.
```

Reviewer: will review more later...
